# Proj-6_Home-Service-Robot

This is a project completed for the Robotics Software course of Udacity.

After spending a serious amount of time learning the core concepts of robotics programming in ROS, I had to put all my knowledge to the test.
I made a number of Packages, nodes, and Publishers / subscribers in this project to demonstrate what I learned. 

## To run locally:
You will need ROS (Meledoic Morenia is fairly popular).
Link to installation can be found here: http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Installation

You will also need Catkin to help compile the packages.
A link to the ROS Wiki, which has a link to installation as well as helpful information, can be found below.
http://wiki.ros.org/catkin

## Packages and Files

-Shell Files
 Five shell files are in the inital folder. 
 The "home_service" file is the final collection of work and will run a program which reflects the goal of the project.
 The other for files are used to test smaller portions of the project.
 The "test_slam" file was used to to map the enviroment and objects in it.
 The "test_navigation" file used AMCL to see if the robot could navigate the enviroment when given a goal position.
 All at the same time, it would test the localizing ability of the robot. If the robot did not know where it was, it would fail to navigate.
 
 
-Add Markers
 The "add_markers" Package is used to create a virtual object in RViz to simulate the robot retrieving and delivering an object.
 The package uses a node, add_markers, to publish visualization markers at designated coordinates. The node is also subscribed to the robot odometry.
 When the robot arrives at the coordinates designated as "Pick_up" the node publishes a change to marker making it invisible after 5 seconds.
 Then the the node publishes a new location, the "Drop_off" for the marker but, it is still not visible.
 Once the robot arrives at the drop off, the node publishes the node as visible.
 
 The "add_markers.cpp" can be ran in test mode, allowing you to see the virutal objects simulated without running the robot.
 The marker will be published at the Pick Up location for 5 seconds before being published as invisble.
 Then, after another 5 seconds, the markers will be published at the drop off.
 After launching the world, open a new command prompt and use "rosrun add_markers add_markers _test_add_marker:=true"
 
-Pick Objects
 The "pick_objects" Package is used to send goal locations to the robot. 
 This node uses a Move Base Action, Action Client to communicate with the robot.
 The node sends the "Pick Up" coordinate to the Action Client which communicates with an action called Move Base which moves the robot.
 Once the robot arrives, it sleeps for 5 seconds before the node sends the drop off coordinates to the Action Client.
 If the robot fails to make it to either the Pick Up point or the Drop Off point, a message will appear reporting its failure.
 
 
-My Robot
 The "my_robot" Package houses many of the involved features such as the launch files, world settings, and robot description.
 This package contains the world files used in the shell files and the robot description / spawn location. 
 This package also has the Rviz configuration which is subscribed to many nodes including, maps, markers, and the navigation path which show the path generated by the AMCL package within.
 
 AMCL is a Monte Carlo Localization variant which adjusts the number of particles the robot uses to localize it self on the map as it moves.
 AMCL creates a map node uses a map file, created using SLAM in a previous exercise, as a reference to locate where the robot is. 
 The launch file also creates the Move Base node which moves the robot using a global and local planner.
 In more detail MCL takes a map, creates a number of particles which are recursively checked for likelyhood of being where the robot is.
 The goal is to gradually move from a list of particles spread all over the map, to a list particles which surround the robot.
 As the robot moves around the list cuts the lowest likely particles and creates new particles. 
 Eventually the list averages a location around the robot indicating the robot has a good idea of where it is. 
 With a "known" location, the robot will make its way to the desired coordinates using the local planner to avoid obstacles.
 
